So time to continue with our forum here.
There are a couple of places where you could start all start with the validation and with collecting
all the user inputs.
And for that, let's start with the very first text form field here for the email address there, I
will add the validator argument, which is a function that validates the user input when prompted to.
So we get the value here, which is the value entered by the user, and we can return a string, which
will then be shown as an error message if we detect an error or return null if we have no error.
So the validation logic of when I apply here is very simple, I'll check if value is empty.
And a very, very, very naive email address validation.
I'll check if the value does not contain hence the exclamation mark at the beginning does not contain
at symbol if either of the two is true.
So if it is empty or if we don't have an at in the value, then I'll return an error text where I say
please enter a valid email.
Address like this.
Else, if we make it past this, if statement here, I will return null because then everything is all
right.
Now for the password there, of course, on the password, we also should add some validation.
So let's at this validator function here and here, I'll check if the value is empty, same check as
before and I'll also check the length if the length of the password is, let's say, smaller than six
or smaller than seven.
That, by the way, is also the minimum length firebase ones.
So if it's smaller, if it's shorter than seven, then I'll return.
And sorry, that's the username I want to check on the password, so I'll cut it and added on the password.
So here, if we're shorter than seven, I'll say.
Password must be at least seven characters, long and only otherwise I'll return null here.
And here we need a semicolon.
So now with that back to the user name field here, we have a validator where we also get the value
and it's up to you which validation logic you want.
I'll check for emptiness or also if the value length is, let's say, shorted in four.
So if you have a very short username, then I will say, please enter at least four characters.
And otherwise, justice and the other validators will return null.
So we got these validators, but right now they're never going to get triggered now, they should be
triggered when the user presses this submit button here, this race button.
And we can trigger them all simultaneously through that forum.
That's what you all learned earlier in the course.
For that, we need such a global key.
You might remember this from the forums module.
We create a forum for that by instantiating a global key which will contain some form state in the end.
And with this generic type, we can signal to darte that eventually some form state will be managed
with this key and we need to connect this key to the forum.
So for that, we go to the forum widget and set the key argument of the forum to our form key.
And with that form, he added, we can also add a submit function.
I'll name it, tries, submit, underscore, try to submit to Mark that it's private and should only
be called from inside diskless and in to submit will use that form key.
To validate the forum, we get access to the forum through the current state property and then we can
call validate, and this will trigger all the validators of all the text form fields in the form.
This will return a result, it will tell us whether the form is valid or not, so the store is in a
final.
Variable or constant, therefore?
And we can then check if the form is valid and only if it is valid.
So if all validators return, null, will continue and actually get the values and submit the form.
Now, to get the values, we can again use the form key current state and call save, and what this
will do is it will go to all the text form fields and on every text form field, it will trigger on
saved.
Function here, so we need to add this to every text form field to set up the logic that should run
when the entire form is being saved.
The function that is triggered gets a value, which is the value the user entered.
And then in there we need to do something with that value.
And that something I will do is I will store the entered value in a global or a class wide property.
So for that, besides the Final Four key, I will add a string here, which is a true variable.
So which is not constant, but variable user email.
Which initially is an empty string, let's say.
And I also get my user name here and also the user password, so we got these free properties to find
here and these are the properties will now update you on safe methods.
So, for example, said user email to value here.
We know it's valid.
Otherwise this wouldn't have executed because we only saved a forum.
If we do have valid inputs and therefore we can save dented value, we don't need set state here because
that state would only make one important difference.
It would reevaluate the widget and possibly render the UI.
But this is just some behind the scenes data which we need internally.
And changing that data has no impact on the UI, so there is no need to re-evaluate and render the UI.
Hence I'll just save it like this.
Now, that's the logic we also need on all the other text form fields here for the username all set
username equal to the entered value and here on the password, unsurprisingly, we set user password
equal to the entered value.
So all these properties are updated when safe is being called here, and therefore after safe was called,
we can use those values to.
Send our off request to Firebase or anything like that.
We'll take care about this in a next step.
Now, one other thing I want to do after validating before we actually save everything, I will use
focus, scope, the focus scope class provided by flutter, which needs a context which we have available
here in the state class to call unfocussed.
But this will essentially just close the soft keyboard, which might still be open as soon as we submit
the form so that the keyboard always closes because this will move the focus away from any input field
to nothing, basically.
And with all of that, for the moment, I'll just print user email here and I'll repeat this for user
name and here for user password, so that we at least see the values and try to submit is now a method
that should be connected to this race button here.
So on prest will now point at Trie submit and we added like this without parentheses because we just
want to point at it so that it's executed on our behalf when the buttons pressed by the user.
If we save that and we go back and I enter some email address here and I leave out the username, but
I do enter a password which is too short and I click login, you see these error messages.
So that works.
And if I then fix all these errors here.
And I click login.
It looks better and I clicked it twice, which is I see the outputs twice, so submitting and getting
these inputs works and that's great.
Now, of course, we don't just want to get and validate all these inputs, we also want to switch between
log in and sign up mode.
The mode we're in will change the labels on the buttons, but it will also change the text form fields.
We only want to fetch the username if we are signing up, not if we're logging in.
So therefore, in the off forum, we should also manage some state Hensel add a new variable here.
Bull, or actually a bar here, because we can infer to type as we can down there since I set an initial
type so AVAR, which I'll name is Log in, which initially, let's say is true.
And this controls however, we currently are in log in mode or in sign up mode.
And this should be changed whenever this flat button at the bottom is pressed, so whenever Desplat
button here is pressed, I want to switch.
So here in this anonymous function here, we can set is log in equal to what it's currently not to reverse
it, but that should now be wrapped in a set state calls so that the UI is also updated because when
we change the IS log in mode.
This does affect the UI.
So this needs to go into a set state called.
Now, login, for example, has an impact on this text here.
There we can check if is log in is true and with a ternary expression, we can return a different value
for when it's true, then for when it's not true, because when it's true, we can switch to the Sign-Up
Mode.
So then we want to show create new account because that's the alternative to logging in.
Otherwise, if it's false, we are in sign-off mode and we want to allow the user to switch to log in
mode.
So maybe a text like I already have an account is appropriate then.
And also here for the race button, if we are in log-in mode, I want to show the log in text, but
otherwise, if we are in sign up mode, I want to show sign up or sign up like this.
And if we now safeties, we can click this button and these labels update now the user name field,
as I mentioned, is all the only required if we are signing up.
So this entire text form field here should only be added conditionally.
And we can do this with this pretty nice dart, Syntex, where we add if statement in disarray in this
widget array for to column.
And this item is then added and removed dynamically to and from the list based on the condition in our
IF statement.
So here I can check if we're not in log in mode, log in.
And only if we are not the field thereafter will be added to the array.
So the value thereafter will be added to the array.
So only if this is not true, this text from field will be part of the Cullum's array if this is true.
So it is log.
It is true and therefore this is false.
This will not be added.
Now you see some blue squiggly lines here because this is a dart feature which is only available since
Worsham to free.
You might not have those lines.
If you do have them, you can go to perspectival and simply increase that minimum STK where you want
here to Tuborg free.
And with that just goes away, it rebuilds.
And now you will see that if I click here, you'll see also that this input here appears and disappears.
So that's pretty nice.
But you will also notice a bug.
You see, if I'm in logging mode, we got a password entered.
But if I click on create new account that moves to username.
So actually the value and username now switches between the username field and the password field.
And that happens because we dynamically add and remove a text form field.
And inside of this array, Flutter is not able to efficiently differentiate between these fields, which
are always the same widget.
I also covered this earlier in the course, and you might remember that keys are a solution here.
Keys allow Flutter to uniquely identify an element if you have similar elements next to each other.
So we can add a key here to all these text from fields and we can create a value key, which basically
allows us to hard code our own identifier.
And here we could add email on the email text form field and on the username text from field.
We add a username value key and on the password field we add a password key.
And with that you'll see that this bug is no longer dear.
If I now add Maximilien here in the username, if I now switch, you see it's gone in login mode and
it's all Zygon here because we removed the widget in the meantime, but it doesn't jump between password
and username.
So this bug is fixed.
And with that fixed side note, you will also see that, for example, the password and on persists.
So if I enter this, you will see I can switch and we keep it.
So with that fixed, we now can work on really submitting that data and creating an actual user with
Firebase.